JUDY WOODRUFF: This week,
we're going to take a look at a
special series about living with
disabilities from our
network of Student Reporting
Labs around the country.
The series, called Limitless,
includes more than 30 stories
written, filmed and edited
entirely by middle and
high school students.
Tonight, we learn about
Ryan Hudson-Peralta.
He's a Web designer in
Detroit who was born with
congenital limb deficiency.
The video was produced by his
son, Noah, and the Student
Reporting Lab at Frederick V.
Pankow Center High School
in Clinton, Michigan.
PATRICK PERALTA, Father of
Ryan: We kind of figured
he was here for a purpose.
KIMBERLY PERALTA, Mother of
Ryan: Everyone in the world
is going to know his name.
DARRYL BLANDING, Friend
of Ryan: He is different
than anybody else.
DAN GILBERT, CEO, Quicken
Loans: There's no better
word than inspirational.
So he inspires everyone.
He inspires me.
MAN: Ryan has taught me how to
not worry about the past, don't
focus on the future, but enjoy
every moment of the present.
RYAN HUDSON-PERALTA,
Web Designer: My name
is Ryan Hudson-Peralta.
I was born with a
disability called congenital
limb deficiency, which
basically is the shortening
of the arms and the legs.
And, in my case, I was
born without hands.
When I was born, the doctors
told my parents that I would
never drive a car or go to a
regular school.
They said I would
never have a family.
So, yes, everyone pretty much
doubted me when I was a kid.
KIMBERLY PERALTA: Well,
after Ryan was born, the
doctors wouldn't show me him.
And, all of a sudden, they
covered up the mirror and told
my husband, hey, Mr. Peralta,
leave the room.
And I didn't understand why.
And I said, where's my baby?
I want to see my baby.
And I kind of went into shock.
And they told me something
was wrong with his arm, and
then something was wrong with
his leg.
PATRICK PERALTA: They
said, well, we will let you
see him in a little bit.
I just looked at his face
and said, he's a fighter.
DAN GILBERT: Actually, I think
I saw Ryan Hudson-Peralta
before I heard about him, so
- - and I asked somebody.
I said, wait, is
he working for us?
What's he doing?
And I think somebody said,
well, he's a designer.
The first thing you ask
yourself is, how does a man who
doesn't have limbs design stuff
on a computer?
But that's just really the
first question, because then
you see everything else he does.
And you keep asking, how does
he do that, how does he do
that, how does he do that?
Sooner or later, you stop asking
the question, because he just
figures out a way to do it.
So, it was truly remarkable
to me and very shocking and
also inspirational at the same
time.
DARRYL BLANDING: Never heard
him complain about nothing.
And he has to work twice as
hard to do daily tasks, like
to send a text message or just
anything.
And he never complains
about that at all, nothing.
RYAN HUDSON-PERALTA: As a
kid, I started to draw with
my pencil between my feet.
And then I really realized one
day that it was going to be
pretty tough when I go into
a bank and have to hop up
on the counter to sign the
-- sign the deposit slip.
So, I moved the pencil from my
feet to my chin and shoulder
and I started to draw that
way.
In 2013, I started working for
Quicken Loans and their family
of companies as a Web and
Internet user
interface designer.
And about nine months after
working there, I got an e-mail
from Dan Gilbert's team asking
me to speak at these events he
has every -- about every month.
DAN GILBERT: We wanted Ryan
to talk about a philosophy
and how that plays out through
him and his story.
And he does a great
job, because, again, for
everyone in the audience,
it's probably their
first time seeing Ryan.
And he's just so -- such a
unique individual that every
time people see him and see he's
just a regular, normal
guy who just gets it done,
just, you know, different
kind of challenges,
I think that inspires
everybody in a big, big way.
He is a testament, a living
testament to that, with the way
that he interacts with people,
the way that he approaches
work, the way that he
builds community around him.
He understands the power
of relationship and he also
understands the power of people.
RYAN HUDSON-PERALTA: Bad
things are going to happen to
you every day in your life.
And no matter what, if
you stay positive, you're
going to get through them.
I mean, I could look
at every day in my life
as something negative.
Being born without hands is
not the greatest thing that
could happen to somebody.
But I have a choice
every day that I wake up.
I can either look at myself as
a poor guy with a disability
or somebody that can go
out and inspire people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what
an inspiration Ryan is.
Remarkable.
You can see more of these
stories from young journalists
across the country at
studentreportinglabs.org.